Tutorial: How to do A/A testing (#6244)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/aa-testing.md

---
title: How to do A/A testing
date: 2023-07-06
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-4.png
tags: ['experimentation', 'feature flags']
---

> An A/A test is the same as an [A/B test](/docs/experiments) except both groups getting the same code or component. Because both groups get functionally identical variants, you want to see no statistical difference between the variants by the end of the experiment. If there is a significant difference, that is cause to investigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An A/A test is the same as an [A/B test](/docs/experiments) except both groups receive the same treatment or product experience. Since both groups get identical functionality, the goal is to not see a statistical difference between the variants by the end of the experiment. 
```

> Teams run A/A tests to ensure their A/B test service, functionality, and implementation process results in accurate and relevant results. A/A tests are a way to discover broken parts of this process, and this tutorial shows you how to run one in PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teams run A/A tests to ensure their A/B test service, functionality, and implementation work as expected and process results accurately. A/A tests are a way to discover broken parts of this process, and this tutorial shows you how to run one in PostHog.
```

> > Unlike other A/B testing tools, A/A tests aren’t needed to calculate baseline conversion and sample metrics in PostHog. You can calculate those using your product data, and they are automatically when you create an experiment.

Reviewer: Running an A/A test is required in other tools?? I found that very surprising

Author: Yeah a couple of the YC examples needed to use A/A tests to figure out how long to run tests for.

## Creating an experiment

The first step in running an A/A test is creating an experiment. You do this going to the [experiments tab](https://app.posthog.com/experiments) and clicking the "New experiment" button. Set a name, key, and experiment goal. Make sure to clarify in the name or description that it is an A/A test.

![Create an experiment](../images/tutorials/aa-testing/experiment.png)

> If you use an absolute goal, like total pageviews, make sure to use an equal variant split (which is default). If you use a relative goal like conversion, you can test non-equal variant splits like 25-75. To do this, edit the feature flag with the same key as your experiment, change the variant rollout, and press save.

Reviewer: Should we maybe just recommend the split be 50/50? It would make it simpler

```suggestion
If you use an absolute goal, like total pageviews, make sure to use an equal variant split (which is the default). If you use a relative goal like conversion, you can test non-equal variant splits like 25-75. To do this, edit the feature flag with the same key as your experiment, change the variant rollout, and press save.
```

## Implementing your A/A test

> Critical to A/A testing is treating it like a standard A/B test. This means implementing it like any A/B test. You must call the related feature flag, set up code dependent on it, and capture the relevant goal event(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is critical to A/A testing that you treat it like a standard A/B test. This means implementing it like any A/B test. You must call the related feature flag, set up code dependent on it, and capture the relevant goal event(s).
```

<MultiLanguage>

```js
'use client'
import { useFeatureFlagVariantKey } from 'posthog-js/react'
import Link from 'next/link'

export default function Home() {

  const test = useFeatureFlagVariantKey('aa-homepage') === 'test'
  const control = useFeatureFlagVariantKey('aa-homepage') === 'control'

  return (
    <>
      <h1>Welcome to the homepage</h1>
      <h2>{ test || control ? <Link href='/signup'>Sign up</Link> : ''}</h2>
    </>
  )
}
```

```python
from posthog import Posthog

posthog = Posthog(
  '<ph_project_api_key>', 
  host='<ph_instance_address>'
)
user_id = 'ian@posthog.com'

flag = posthog.get_feature_flag('aa-homepage', user_id)

if flag == 'test' or flag == 'control':
    posthog.capture(user_id, 'ran query', {'$feature/aa-homepage': flag})
    # do something...
```

</MultiLanguage>

After implementing, go back to your [experiment](https://app.posthog.com/experiments) and click "launch." Let the experiment run for a few days or weeks and monitor its metrics.

## Handling A/A test results

> After running your tests, you should see the same results for all the variants, or if not the same, the results should not be statistically significant. The probability a variant is the best should be about 50% for both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running your tests, you should see the similar results for all the variants. The results should not be statistically significant, since all variants received the same treatment.
```
